# Case | 格かく

A _case_ is any of the forms of a noun, adjective, or pronoun that
express the semantic relation of a word to other words, especially to
verbs, in a phrase, clause, or sentence. Given that Japanese is an
agglutinative language with a rigid SOV topological structure, cases
therefore play a prominent role in marking grammatical structure as well
as information structure and thematic role.

In the sense of the case category, the standard modern Japanese has been
categorized as an _nominative-accusative language_ 「対格言語たいかくげんご」 in
which case the subject of the transitive verb and the intransitive verb
share the same case, but are distinguished from the case of object of
the transitive verbs.

Japanese implements its case system by postpositional particles which
more precisely are also known as case particles. These case particles
are phonologically bound to the preceding words as the form
`「Substantive + Case Particle」` is, nevertheless, case particles are
actually phrasal clitics rather than nominal declensions so that other
elements (e.g. adverbial particles) may intervene between case particles
and the marking substantives or extend the scope over more than one noun
phrase`ex1.1`.

`Example 1.1`                                       
太郎たろうと花子はなこだけが`NOM`駅えきから`ABL`歩いあるた`PST`。            
                                                    
 Only Taro and Hanako walked from the train station.

One of the key features of Japanese case system is based on its
topic-prominent nature. Multiple nominative-marked noun phrases may
occure within one clause so that the initial one may be considered as
being characterized by the remaining part of the clause`ex1.2`. This
phenomenon has become a major problem for describing Japanese case
system.

`Example 1.2`                                       
太郎たろうが`NOM`母親ははおやが`NOM`評判ひょうばんが`NOM`良いい。            
                                                    
 Taro is such that his mother has a good reputation.

## 1. Standard Cases | 標準格ひょうじゅんかく

Cases are language-specific entityHaspelmath \[1:ToC\] which means case
labels are only valid for particular languages. For convenience, similar
case labels are used for different languages, nonetheless, it is still
senseless to compare cases that share same names among languages.
Besides, linguists with different backgrounds use same terms for
different concepts, or use different terms for very similar or identical
concepts. This issue is even majorer in the case category.

As agglutinative language tends to have a bigger case system, there are
10 primary cases marked by 10 case particles in the standard modern
Japanese.

### 1.1. Nominative | 主格しゅかく 「~が」

The _nominative_ is usually the subject of a verb or a predicate, and be
marked by the case particle が`ex1.3`. Despite the fact that は-marked
topic may also be interpreted as the subject, the mainstream suggests
that Japanese subject refers to the logical subject instead of the
topic`ex1.3d`.

`Example 1.3`                      
 `a` 雨あめが`NOM`降りふ出しでた`PST`。        
                                   
      It started to rain           
 `b` 風かぜが`NOM`涼すずしい。               
                                   
      The wind is cool.            
 `c` 誰だれが`NOM`幹事かんじです`COP`か`SFP`。  
                                   
      Who is the secretary?        
 `d` 魚さかなは`TOP`、猫ねこが`NOM`食べたた`PST`。
                                   
      The cat ate the fish.        

What is triky here is that が-marked nominatives may have no
corresponding grammatical function. が marks subject arguments as well as
non-subject arguments`ex1.4`, especially for multi nominative-marked
clauses where the initial nominative is considered as the subject but
the rest may just be left undefined in the sense of grammar`ex1.2`.

`Example 1.4`                                      
 `a` 私わたしは`TOP`数学すうがくが`NOM`大好きだいすだ`COP`。           
                                                   
      I love mathematics.                          
 `b` いま、冷たいビールつめが`NOM`飲みのたい`Wish`なあ`SFP`。          
                                                   
      At the moment, (I) want to drink a cold beer.
 `c` 太郎たろうが`NOM`この本ほんが`ACC`読ようみ易やすい/難にくい。          
                                                   
      For Taro to read this book is easy/difficult.

In `ex1.4`, those が-marked nominatives are typically considered as
_targets_ 「対象語たいしょうご」, which is a subtype of the object or complement,
usually being the target of emotion, wishes or ability.

`Example 1.5`                               
象ぞうは`TOP`、鼻はなが`NOM`長ながい。                    
                                            
 Speaking of the elephant, its nose is long.

Note the difference between `ex1.3d` and `ex1.5` both of which start
with a topic. The topic of the former is actually an object placed
before the subject, whereas the topic of the latter is the whole
containing the part characterized by its predicate. It’s still not clear
whether the nominative in `ex1.5` should be considered as the subject.

More about subject and topic is discussed in \[missing\].

### 1.2. Accusative | 対格たいかく 「~を」

The _accusative_ is the direct object of a transitive verb.

### 1.3. Genitive | 属格ぞっかく 「~の」


### 1.4. Dative | 与格よかく 「~に」


### 1.5. Locative | 処格しょかく 「~で」/「~に」


### 1.6. Allative | 向格こうかく 「~へ」/「~に」


### 1.7. Instrumental | 具格ごかく 「~で」


### 1.8. Ablative | 奪格だっかく 「~から」


### 1.9. Comitative | 共格きょうかく 「~と」


### 1.10. Terminative | 到格とうかく 「~まで」


### 1.11. Comparative | 比較格ひかくかく 「~より」


## 2. Valency | 結合価けつごうか


## Reference

\[1\]Martin Haspelmath. _The Handbook of Case_. In _Terminology of Case_                                                                                                            
     Oxford University Press, 2006.                                                                                                                                                 
     [https://www.eva.mpg.de/fileadmin/content\_files/staff/haspelmt/pdf/CaseTerminology.pdf](https://www.eva.mpg.de/fileadmin/content_files/staff/haspelmt/pdf/CaseTerminology.pdf)
