# Case | 格かく

A _case_ is any of the forms of a noun, adjective, or pronoun that
express the semantic relation of a word to other words, especially to
verbs, in a phrase, clause, or sentence. Given that Japanese is an
agglutinative language with a rigid SOV topological structure, cases
therefore play a prominent role in marking grammatical structure as well
as information structure and thematic role.

In the sense of the case category, the standard modern Japanese has been
categorized as an _nominative-accusative language_ 「対格言語たいかくげんご」 in
which case the subject of the transitive verb and the intransitive verb
share the same case, but are distinguished from the case of object of
the transitive verbs.

Japanese implements its case system by postpositional particles which
more precisely are also known as case particles. These case particles
are phonologically bound to the preceding words as the form
`「Substantive + Case Particle」` is, nevertheless, case particles are
actually phrasal clitics rather than nominal declensions so that other
elements (e.g. adverbial particles) may intervene between case particles
and the marking substantives or extend the scope over more than one noun
phrase`ex1.1`.

`Example 1.1`                                       
太郎たろうと花子はなこだけが`NOM`駅えきから`ABL`歩いあるた`PST`。            
                                                    
 Only Taro and Hanako walked from the train station.

One of the key features of Japanese case system is based on its
topic-prominent nature. Multiple nominative-marked noun phrases may
occure within one clause so that the initial one may be considered as
being characterized by the remaining part of the clause`ex1.2`. This
phenomenon has become a major problem for describing Japanese case
system.

`Example 1.2`                                       
太郎たろうが`NOM`母親ははおやが`NOM`評判ひょうばんが`NOM`良いい。            
                                                    
 Taro is such that his mother has a good reputation.

## 1. Surface Cases | 表層格ひょうそうかく

Cases are language-specific entityHaspelmath \[1:ToC\] which means case
labels are only valid for particular languages. For convenience, similar
case labels are used for different languages, nonetheless, it is still
senseless to compare cases that share same names among languages.
Besides, linguists with different backgrounds use same terms for
different concepts, or use different terms for very similar or identical
concepts. This issue is even majorer in the case category.

As agglutinative language tends to have a bigger case system, there are
10 primary cases marked by 10 case particles in the standard modern
Japanese.

### 1.1. Nominative | 主格しゅかく 「~が」

The _nominative_ usually functions as the subject of a verb or a
predicate, and be marked by the case particle が`ex1.3`. Despite the fact
that は-marked topic may also be interpreted as the subject, the
mainstream suggests that Japanese subject refers to the logical subject
instead of the topic`ex1.3d`.

`Example 1.3`                      
 `a` 雨あめが`NOM`降りふ出しでた`PST`。        
                                   
      It started to rain           
 `b` 風かぜが`NOM`涼すずしい。               
                                   
      The wind is cool.            
 `c` 誰だれが`NOM`幹事かんじです`COP`か`SFP`。  
                                   
      Who is the secretary?        
 `d` 魚さかなは`TOP`、猫ねこが`NOM`食べたた`PST`。
                                   
      The cat ate the fish.        

What is triky here is that が-marked nominatives may have no
corresponding grammatical function. が marks subject arguments as well as
non-subject arguments`ex1.4`, especially for multiple nominative-marked
clauses where the initial nominative is considered as the subject but
the rest may just be left undefined in the sense of grammar`ex1.2`.

`Example 1.4`                                      
 `a` 私わたしは`TOP`数学すうがくが`NOM`大好きだいすだ`COP`。           
                                                   
      I love mathematics.                          
 `b` いま、冷つめたいビールが`NOM`飲みのたい`Wish`なあ`SFP`。          
                                                   
      At the moment, (I) want to drink a cold beer.
 `c` 太郎たろうが`NOM`この本ほんが`NOM`読ようみ易やすい/難にくい。          
                                                   
      For Taro to read this book is easy/difficult.

Those nominatives in `ex1.4` are typically considered as the
_target_ 「対象語たいしょうご」, which is a subtype of the object or complement,
usually being the target of emotion, feeling, wishes or ability.

`Example 1.5`                               
象ぞうは`TOP`、鼻はなが`NOM`長ながい。                    
                                            
 Speaking of the elephant, its nose is long.

Note the difference between `ex1.3d` and `ex1.5` both of which start
with a topic. The topic of the former actually acts as an object placed
before the subject, whereas the topic of the latter refers to the whole
that containing the part referred by the nominative and characterized by
its predicate. It’s still not clear whether the nominative in `ex1.5`
should be analyzed as the subject.

For more about subject and topic, see \[missing\].

### 1.2. Accusative | 対格たいかく 「~を」

The _accusative_ functions as the direct object of a transitive
verb`ex1.6a`, or the complement of an intransitive verb, and be marked
by the case particle を.

`Example 1.6`                                             
 `a` 今いまの`GEN`若者わかものは`TOP`みんなスマホを`ACC`使いつかます`POL`。        
                                                          
      All young people today use smartphones.             
 `b` 18歳さいの`GEN`とき、故郷こきょうを`ACC`/から`ABL`離れはなました`POL`.`PST`。
                                                          
      At the age of 18, (I) left my hometown.             
 `c` 鳶とびが`NOM`紺碧こんぺきの`GEN`空そらを`ACC`飛びとました`POL`.`PST`。     
                                                          
      A hawk flew over the cerulean blue sky.             

More precisely, を-marked complements identify the source`ex1.6b` or
path`ex1.6c` arguments of motion verbs. For path arguments, they can
only be marked by the accusative particle; while for source arguments,
they can also be marked by the ablative particle, but note that not all
source arguments can be marked by the accusative particle`ex1.7`. That
is, accusatives only work with animate subjects that are volitional.

`Example 1.7`                 
血ちが`NOM`傷口きずぐちから`ABL`出でた`PST`。
                              
 Blood went out of the wound. 

### 1.3. Genitive | 属格ぞっかく 「~の」

The _genitive_ relates the possessor substantive to the head
substantive, or indicates the appositive of another substantive that
sharing the same referent, and typically be marked by the particle のIt
has been a standard practice to treat の as a case particle. 連体助詞れんたいじょし
might be more appreciate..

The possession has a much wider interpretation than ownership. Property,
material, quantity, time, place, etc. All these asymmetric relationships
are counted on. So that のs may not appear exactly in the translated
sentences. Besides, as the form `「substantiveのsubstantive」` is also a
substantive, the genitives therefore might be linked or composed
straightforwardly`ex1.8`.

`Example 1.8`                                                    
 `a` 今日きょうの`GEN`テレビ東京とうきょうの`GEN`『TXNニュース』の`GEN`番組ばんぐみは`TOP`つまらない。
                                                                 
      Today's "TXN News" programs of TV Tokyo are boring.        
 `b` ドイツの`GEN`スチールの`GEN`包丁ほうちょうが`NOM`欲しいほです`COP`.`POL`。          
                                                                 
      I want a German steel kitchen knife.                       
 `c` 14000円えんの`GEN`日本語にほんごの`GEN`本ほんを`ACC`買いかました`PST`。            
                                                                 
      I bought a Japenese book for ¥14000.                       

Nonetheless, in order to avoid ambiguities, the appositive is only
allowed to be followed by a substantive that not containing another
genitive`ex1.8`.

`Example 1.9`                                         
こちらは`TOP`王おうさんの`GEN`彼女かのじょの`GEN`高橋たかはしさんです`COP`.`POL`。
                                                      
 This is Mr.Wang's girlfriend, Takahashi.             

Revisiting `ex1.5` which is ambiguity in analysing its sentence
structure. What has already been learnt is that the topic refers to the
whole that containing the part referred by the nominative, it is a good
chance to transform that complex sentence into a simple one with
genitive`ex1.10`.

`Example 1.10`                     
 `a` 象は`TOP`、鼻が`NOM`長い。            
                                   
 `b` 象ぞうの`GEN`鼻はなが`NOM`長ながい。       
                                   
      The nose of elephant is long.

Historically speaking, the particle の is a marker of adnominal
modification, and turns the word or phrase it attached into an
attributive modifier`ex1.11`. But it remains an open question whether
the use of の as genitive marker should be analyzed as a subtype of
adnominal modification marker.

`Example 1.11`                                          
 `a` 太郎たろうが`NOM`いつもの`GEN`バスで`INSTR`帰宅しきたくた`PST`。        
                                                        
      Taro went home by the bus he always rode.         
 `b` 太郎たろうが`NOM`神社じんじゃへ`ALL`の`GEN`道みちを`INSTR`見つけみた`PST`。
                                                        
      Taro found a way to the shrine.                   

Further more, の may also function as a nominalizer`ex1.12a` or a
pro-form`ex1.12b` that refers back to an entity that is recoverable from
the discourse context. In these situations, the の and the marking word
or phrase as a whole becomes a substantive, and no other substantive is
following it.

`Example 1.12`                                                       
 `a` 太郎たろうが`NOM`独ひとりで外出がいしゅつするの`NMLZ`を`ACC`止めやた`PST`。                
                                                                     
      Taro stopped going out alone.                                  
 `b` どんな鞄かばんが`NOM`良いですかい。丈夫じょうぶの`One`を`ACC`ください`Wish`。               
                                                                     
      What kind of bag do you want? I'd like the durable one, please.

### 1.4. Dative | 与格よかく 「~に」

_dative_

### 1.5. Locative | 処格しょかく 「~で」/「~に」

_locative_

### 1.6. Allative | 向格こうかく 「~へ」/「~に」

_allative_

### 1.7. Instrumental | 具格ごかく 「~で」

_instrumental_

### 1.8. Ablative | 奪格だっかく 「~から」

_ablative_

### 1.9. Comitative | 共格きょうかく 「~と」

_comitative_

### 1.10. Terminative | 到格とうかく 「~まで」

_terminative_

### 1.11. Comparative | 比較格ひかくかく 「~より」

_comparative_

## 2. Valence | 結合価けつごうか


## Reference

\[1\]Martin Haspelmath. _The Handbook of Case_. In _Terminology of Case_                                                                                                            
     Oxford University Press, 2006.                                                                                                                                                 
     [https://www.eva.mpg.de/fileadmin/content\_files/staff/haspelmt/pdf/CaseTerminology.pdf](https://www.eva.mpg.de/fileadmin/content_files/staff/haspelmt/pdf/CaseTerminology.pdf)
