# International Phonetic Alphabet | 国際音標文字こくさいおんぴょうもじ

The _International Phonetic Alphabet(IPA)_ is an alphabetic system of
phonetic notation based primarily on the Latin alphabet. It was devised
the International Phonetic Association \(also abbreviated to IPA\) and
has become the standardized representation of speech sounds for all
(spoken) languages since 19th century.

The IPA provides notations for both phone and phoneme. By convention,
phones and phonemes are represented in \[ \] and / /, respectively.

## 1. Vowels | 母音ぼいん

_Vowel_s are produced with an open vocal tract, which means the airflow
will not be disturbed from vocal cords to lips to outside, and vary in
quality, loudness, and length.

15/21aoe 4a　12;aoe;125/121caa　;ca;40/31A6 5A　613;A6;aoeca;caA6;
20/32ae　;ae;10255; 35/63eoe 3E　11;eoe;115/1233cr33　;3cr3;40/332O142　O6
;2O;eoe3cr3;3cr32O; 54cmoe　;cmo;55/64schwa@;40/34mbo　o;mbo; 25/65ecmo
2e　10;ecmo;35/45989　8;98;40/357o157　o7 ;7o;ecmo98;987o;
55/126IYI　Y;IY; 145/126U　U;U;
575/487nbWW　WB;nbW;
5/27iy 1i　y9 ;iy;95/12710171　018;10;40/37Wu16W　u8 ;Wu;iy10;10Wu;
aoeae;aeeoe;eoecmo;cmoecmo;ecmoiy; ca5;53cr3;3cr3schwa;schwa98;9810;
A62O;2Ombo;mbo7o;7oWu;
5/28Front`Front`;95/128Central`Central`;40/38Back`Back`;
07Close`Close`;06Near-Close`Near-Close`;05Close-Mid`Close-Mid`;04Mid`Mid`;03Open-Mid`Open-Mid`;02Near-Open`Near-Open`;01Open`Open`;
`Figure 1.1: `IPA Vowels

Figure1.1 is the well known vowel chart defined in the IPA, extended the
 \[1\], a measuring system of vowels that well trained phoneticians can
produce and recognize. That is, vowels defined in figure1.1 are just
abstract references, instead of exact mappings, of real vowels in a
particular language, although for some languages, some of their vowels
may happen to coincide with the cardinal vowels. Nonetheless, figure1.1
still deserves its place for beginners due to its intuitiveness.

A _cardinal vowel_ 「基本母音きほんぼいん」 is defined to be produced when the
tongue is in an extreme position, either front or back, high or lowThe
position involves two dimensions, named ​_vowel height_​ and ​_vowel
backness_​, which are relative to the roof and back of the mouth,
respectively. By a formal definition, these two features refer to the
first and second formant of the vocal spectrogram, but the two formants
consistently associated with the position of the tongue and jaw, thus,
it is safe to follow the simple definition. Given that opening the mouth
will lower the tongue from the viewpoint of the palate, moving the
tongue vertically can be simplified to opening and closing the mouth,
which adjusts the aperture of the jaw. As is in figure1.1, the IPA
prefers the `open`/`close` model, which inverts the `high`/`low` model..
The three corner vowels, \[i\], \[A\], and \[u\], have articulatory
definitions, other cardinal vowels are auditorily equidistant amongst
them. More precisely, \[i\] is produced with the tongue as far forward
and as high in the mouth as possible without producing friction; \[u\]
is produced with the tongue as far back and as high in the mouth as
possible with protruded lips, similar to blowing out a candle; and \[A\]
is produced with the tongue as low and as far back in the mouth as
possible. Along with four vowels at trisection points, \[e\], \[E\],
\[O\], and \[o\], plus the `front-open` vowel \[a\], these eight vowels
are common in natural languages, and therefore be categorized as the
_primary cardinal vowel_ 「第一次基本母音だいいちじきほんぼいん」, the rest, whose numerical
labels range from 9 to 18, are categorized as the _secondary cardinal
vowel_ 「第二次基本母音だいにじきほんぼいん」.

For each pair of vowels at the same position, they differ in roundedness
of lips. By some phonetic correlation between rounding and
backnessAcoustical speaking, rounding tends to be make the second
formant decrease., the unrounded vowels are placed at the left side,
while the rounded ones are placed at the right side. The two
counterexamples, \[@\] and \[5\], do not have definitions in sense of
the roundedness, and are more often unrounded than rounded.

Generally speaking, there are only 5 vowels in Japanese. In a broad
sense, these vowels can be simply transcribed as the five blue symbols
in Figure1.1, while in a narrow sense, if compared to similar vowels in
other languages, they should be transcribed as the orange onesThay are
marked with diacritics whose meanings can be observed in the chart
directly. \[◌\] means ​_lowered_​, \[◌\] means ​_advanced_​, and \[◌\]
means ​_centralized_​.\(plus the blue \[i\]). In other words, the orange
symbols represent the true vowels of Japanese, but the blue ones are
also acceptable for easy transcribing\[W\] can be transcribed as \[u\]
for same reason. because there is no phonemic distinction between the
orange symbol and the blue counterpart within Japanese.

In contrast to English and Mandarin Chinese, the extreme positions of
Japanese vowels, benchmarked with the `open central unrounded vowel`
\[a\], the `close front unrounded vowel` \[i\], and the `close near-back
vowel` \[W\], are actually less extreme in both height and width
dimension, which measures the other position of lips for an unrounded
vowelThe vowel chart gives no information about the “vowel width”. For
short, the extremely unrounded vowel is categorized as ​_spread_​, like
smiling.. The \[W\] is the most notable one among the five due to its
special roundedness: it can be either unrounded(\[W\]) or
compressed(\[WB\]), which is the other type of roundedness in addition
to the protrusionThe IPA does not define specialized diacritics for the
two types of roundedness, the superscript letter B can be used for
compression, and the w, usually omitted, for protrusion..

Last but most important, ​_never_​ learn pronunciation from its written
description, unless you have already mastered the pronunciation of at
least one foreign language with a rich set of phonetic features by
learning from professional teachers.

## 2. Consonants | 子音しいん

_Consonant_s are produced with a partial or total closure of the vocal
tract.

## References

\[1\]Daniel Jones. Cardinal Vowels.                                                                  
     [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal\_vowels](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_vowels),
     1967.                                                                                           
