# Part of Speech | 品詞ひんし

_Part of Speech_ is the category of words that have similar grammatical
properties. More precisely, Japanese words are categorized based on
their meanings, grammatical functions and inflections. Given that
Japanese is an agglutinative language in which case words are well
formed and keep consistent after their unions, Japanese words are well
categoried into 10 - 12 groups.

* _Independent Words_ 「自立語じりつご」

  * _Substantives_ 「体言たいげん」

    * Nouns 「名詞めいし」

      * Pronouns 「代名詞だいめいし」

      * Numerals 「数詞すうし」

  * _Declinable Words_ 「用言ようげん」

    * Verbs 「動詞どうし」

    * Adjectives 「形容詞けいようし」

    * Adjectival Verbs 「形容動詞けいようどうし」

  * _Modifiers_ 「修飾語しゅうしょくご」

    * Prenominals 「連体詞れんたいし」

    * Adverbs 「副詞ふくし」

  * Conjunctions 「接続詞せつぞくし」

  * Interjections 「感動詞かんどうし」

* _Ancillary Words_ 「付属語ふぞくご」

  * Particles 「助詞じょし」

  * Auxiliary Verbs 「助動詞じょどうし」

These categories are typically taught at school in Japan. However
categorization schemes may vary due to different grammatically
perspectives. Nowadays, textbooks tend to use modern categorization
scheme. For example, the Adjectives and Adjectival Verbs have been
merged, with being named as イ-adjective and ナ-adjective respectively.
These changes may not bad, despite the fact that new categories may be
given meaningless names, say カ変 conjugation verb and サ変 conjugation verb
are merged as _the Type-III verb_ which is an awful name. Thus, this
book follows the modern scheme but drops all meaningless namesThis might
be a personal preference as what I have learnt from Software Engineering
is that do not use meaningless words (e.g. _a1_, _a2_, _a3_) to name
variables since they make the code less readable for others and even
yourself in the future..

Besides, a _phrase_ 「句く」 is a small group of words standing together as
a conceptual unit, and typically forming a component of a clause or
containing a clause within it. As a kind of lexical item, phrases can
also be categorized as parts of speech like _noun phrase_ 「名詞句めいしく」,
_verb phrase_ 「動詞句どうしく」, etc. and behaves as the corresponding parts of
speech.
